---
layout: post
title: Upbringings
tags: realtalk
---

While I usually have some very concrete idea about what I want to write about, this won't be one of those posts. Mostly, I think this post is an amalgamation of a bunch of thoughts I have about my current state of affairs, but only through a very polarizing lens on one dimension, and that's about upbringings. 

Very recently, it was the [mid-autumn festival](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mid-Autumn_Festival), and, being the great Asian that I am, I forgot. I took a couple years of Chinese in high school and I know some of the stories about Houyi and Chang'e and the reasons why we worship the moon, but honestly, you're probably better off reading what's on Wikipedia than asking me about these stories. I do, however, remember the story my mom told me when I was younger about how the Chinese took great care to communicate and coordinate the rebellion against the Mongols and overthrow them around this time. Basically, the Mongols had come through and conquered China, so all the people were forbidden from communicating long distances for fear that a coup could be staged. However, someone had come up with the ingenious plan to make cakes and since the Mongols couldn't read Chinese, these cakes (now known to be moon cakes) could be inscribed with writing and the militants would be none the wiser. Informational tangent aside, Chinese people take this time of year to celebrate all the moon's goodness, the good harvest, etc etc. In addition, I take this time to have a quick look back and try to get some perspective.

I'm not a particularly good Asian in the respect that I don't really have a great knowledge or understanding of a lot of things from my culture (major shoutout to the girls at "So Where Are You From" [swayf podcast](http://www.swayfpodcast.com/episodes/) for prompting lots of Asian-related thinking, one of my favorite podcasts to listen to). There's also a bunch of traditions that I was exposed to, many of which I will likely be unable to pass on to my kids appropriately (ex. my mom would make [zong zi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zongzi)). As an Asian-American, I don't think that it's really that uncommon to be poorly-versed in your origin culture; after all, we're growing up in America with an entirely different culture and diverse surroundings from what exists in Asia. I specifically think this is very true for first (second? I know people have different opinions on the exactly "correct" terminology, but whichever is right for the generation whose parents are from Asia) generation Asian-Americans, something like a geometric sequence of things that filter through from one generation to the next.

Anyways, one of my best memories of the mid-autumn festival when I was growing up was being able to eat moon cake. When I was little, I didn't quite have a good grasp on the significance of the holiday, I just knew I got the chance to eat this food which would only really come around once a year. In retrospect, though, the mid-autumn festival is probably one of, if not _the_, biggest holiday I observe apart from Chinese New Year. As you can imagine then, I'm a man that would be damned before I'd be deprived of my moon cakes. However, a lot of holidays revolve around friends and family, and as I've been spending a fair amount of time with my homies at Bawksquad, I brought some over to share.

Somehow, we got onto the topic of financial stability and (jokingly) accidentally introduced privilege into the conversation. Specifically, I was rather surprised to find that I was the only one with real student loans to my name--everyone else was debt-free despite the top-tier colleges we all went to (MIT and Yale). Now don't get me wrong, I'm a very lucky guy in many respects: going to a prestigious school offered (and really continues to provide) various opportunitites to me, I am fortunate enough to have many good friends from all walks of life, and I have had a lot of success in pursing my arbitrary array of interests thus far. However, I don't think I can say that I've ever felt particularly privileged. Personally, I grew up in a household without much extra to spare headed by two immigrant parents who were rather poorly educated. I don't remember the exact age I was, but I do remember consciously choosing to refrain from ever asking for toys again after being chided by my mom about the price of something that I had wanted near Christmas time (I think it was a Power Ranger). For whatever reason, that event stuck with me and was incredibly elucidating for our family's situation. Since then, I've never asked for money from my parents and I've held down jobs or done miscellaneous work to scrape together bits of money to be as self-sufficient as I possibly can (gotta admit, feel pretty good being smart and practical enough to figure out that I qualified for that reduced lunch at school). Sure, sometimes it's undoubtedly been rough in trying to cram in school, extracurriculars, meals (wouldn't believe how much McDonalds on the go that I ate), work, and studying into the limited hours of the day, but looking back, I can't say that I would have changed a thing. At the end of the day, I want to say most of my "luck" is that of Jefferson's--grown out of the exceedingly hard work I put into my efforts rather than sheer chance. I do recognize that part of this is probably psychological: there's definitely a pride in me about being a (mostly) self-made man who's come up from poverty to now be financially successful (started from the bottom and now we're here). At the end of it all though, I look back at the situation and can only imagine how different I would be now if things weren't the way they were.

At first when I had a reasonable grasp on the state of affairs, I was rather jealous. Even into my teenage years (mmmmm with all that teenage angst), I was wildly envious of other who didn't have to work or had fun toys or who simply didn't need to worry about the same things I did. Going into college, a lot of those feelings remained and I was introduced to another side of things where the parents who were more well-educated also introduced their children to more opportunities (what on Earth were Siemens or Intel STS, etc etc). 
